= Terminology
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]

== Overview
Because of the architectural changes in OpenShift v3, a number of core terms
used in OpenShift v2 have changed to better reflect the new model. The following
sections highlight some of these important changes. See the
link:../architecture/core_objects/openshift_model.html[OpenShift Model] topic
for more detailed information on the resources in the new model.

*Application*

A specific  _application_ term or concept no longer exists in OpenShift v3. See
the link:applications.html[Applications] topic for a more in-depth look at this
change.

*Cartridge vs Image*

The easiest replacement term for _cartridge_ in OpenShift v3 is
link:../architecture/core_objects/openshift_model.html#image[_image_]. An image
does more than a cartridge from a packaging perspective, providing better
encapsulation and flexibility. But the cartridge concept also included logic for
building, deploying, and routing which do not exist in images. In OpenShift v3,
these additional needs are met by
link:../architecture/core_objects/builds.html#source-build[Source-to-Image (STI)]
and link:../architecture/core_objects/openshift_model.html#template[templated
configuration].

See the link:carts_vs_images.html[Cartridges vs Images] topic for more detailed
information on these changes.

*Project vs Domain*

link:../architecture/core_objects/openshift_model.html#project[_Project_] is
essentially a rename of _domain_ from OpenShift v2. Projects do have several
features that are not a part of domains in OpenShift v2.

*Gear vs Container*

The _gear_ and _container_ terms are interchangeable. Containers have a cleaner
mapping of being one-to-one with images, whereas many cartridges could be added
to a single gear. With containers, the collocation concept is satisfied by
link:../architecture/core_objects/kubernetes_model.html#pod[pods].

*Master vs Broker*

link:../architecture/infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.html#master[_Masters_]
in OpenShift v3 do the job of the _broker_ layer in OpenShift v2. However, the
MongoDB and ActiveMQ layers used by the broker in OpenShift v2 are no longer
necessary because [sysitem]#etcd# is typically installed with each master.
