= Overview
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:

OpenShift is a layered system designed to expose underlying Docker and
Kubernetes concepts as accurately as possible, with a focus on easy composition
of applications by a developer (install Ruby, push code, add MySQL). Unlike 2.x,
more flexibility of configuration is exposed after creation in all aspects of
the model. The concept of an application as a separate object is removed
in favor of more flexible composition of "services" - allowing two web
containers to reuse a DB, or expose a DB directly to the edge of the network.

==== What are those layers?

Docker provides the abstraction for packaging and creating Linux based
lightweight containers.  Kubernetes provides the cluster management and
orchestrating Docker containers on multiple hosts.  OpenShift adds source code
management, builds, and deployments for developers, and managing and promoting
images at scale as they flow through your system, application management at
scale, and team and user tracking for organizing a large developer organization.


==== What is the OpenShift architecture?

OpenShift is a set of microservices that can run on top of (or alongside) a
Kubernetes cluster.  Data about the objects is stored in etcd - a reliable
clustered key value store.  Those services are broken down by function:

* REST APIs, which expose each of the core objects. Controllers, which read
* those APIs, apply changes to other objects, and report status or write back to
* the object.

Users make calls to the REST API to change the state of the system.  Controllers
use the REST API to read the user's desired state, and then try to bring the
other parts of the system into sync.  For example, when a user requests a build
they create a "Build" object.  The build controller sees that a new Build has
been created, and runs a process on the cluster to perform that build.  When the
build completes, the controller updates the Build object via the REST API and
the user sees their build is complete.

The controller pattern means that much of the functionality in OpenShift is
extensible - how builds are run and launched can be customized independent of
how images are managed, or how deployments happen. The controllers are
performing the "business logic" of the system - taking user actions and
transforming them into reality - and so by customizing those controllers or
replacing them with your own logic different behaviors can be implemented.  From
a system administration perspective, this also means the API can be used to
script common administrative actions on a repeating schedule.  Those scripts are
also controllers - watching for changes and taking action - and OpenShift should
make the ability to customize the cluster in this fashion a first class
behavior.

To make this possible, controllers leverage a reliable stream of changes to the
system to sync their view of the world with what users are doing.  This event
stream pushes changes from etcd to the REST API and then to the controllers as
soon as changes occur, so changes can ripple out through the system very quickly
and efficiently.  However - since failures can occur at any time - the
controllers also have to be able to get the latest state of the system on
startup and make sure everything is in the right state.  This resynchronization
is important - it means that even if something goes wrong, the operator can
restart the affected components, and the system double checks everything before
continuing.  The system should eventually converge to the user intent since the
controllers can always bring the world into sync.


===== How is OpenShift secured?

The OpenShift and Kubernetes APIs authenticate users who present credentials,
and then authorize them based on their role. Both end users and service accounts
can be authenticated via a number of means, primarily OAuth tokens and SSL
certificate authorization. End users (clients of the system) typically make REST
API calls from a client program like `oc` or to the web console via their
browser, and use OAuth bearer tokens for most communications. Infrastructure
components like the nodes use client certificates generated by the system that
contain their identities, while infrastructure components that run in containers
use a token associated with their service account to connect to the API.

Authorization is handled in the OpenShift policy engine, which defines actions
like "create pod" or "list services" and groups them into roles in a policy
document. Roles are bound to users or groups by the user or group identifier.
When a user or service account attempts an action, the policy engine checks that
one or more of the roles the user is assigned to (like cluster administrator,
administrator of the current project) before allowing it to continue.

Since every container that runs on the cluster is associated with a service
account, it is also possible to associate secrets to those service accounts and
have them automatically delivered into the container. This enables the
infrastructure to manage secrets for pulling and pushing images, builds, and the
deployment components, and also allows application code to easily leverage those
secrets.
